docs/creating-accounts.md, before:

---
redirect_from: "/Creating-Accounts"
---

# Creating Accounts

To be able to log in to your new server you need an account. 

It is recommended to use security level 3 for your own account.

Run the following commands in the Worldserver console.

## To create an account

```
account create <user> <pass>
```

**Example:**

```
account create admin admin
```

## To set your account security level

| Level | Security Level    |
|-------|-------------------|
| 0     | SEC_PLAYER        |
| 1     | SEC_MODERATOR     |
| 2     | SEC_GAMEMASTER    |
| 3     | SEC_ADMINISTRATOR |

```
account set gmlevel <user> <level> <realm>
```

{% include note.html content="If the command was run while the account was logged in you need to relog for the security level to update properly." %}

**Example:**

```
account set gmlevel admin 3 -1
```

{% include note.html content="Use -1 to select all realms, or specify the specific realm id." %}

## Changing password

```
account set password <user> <password> <password>
```

**Example:**

```
account set password admin 1234 1234
```

## Higher security level

The highest security level is SEC_CONSOLE (4) which your worldserver has by default.

It has access to account management and is not recommended for in-game accounts for anyone that does not know what they are doing.

To update an account to security level 4 you need to manually edit the fields in the database or run the query below.

```sql
UPDATE `account_access` AS `access`
INNER JOIN `account` AS `account` ON `access`.`id` = `account`.`id`
SET `gmlevel` = 4 WHERE `username` = '<user>';
```

Commit message:

chore. Switch to vitepress (#1)
* chore. Switch to vitepress

* Add PR check workflow

* Temporarily delete the Spanish directory

* changing

* fix windows-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* delete wiki-alerts-and-callouts

* fix macos-server-setup

* fix sniffing-and-parsing

* fix itempurchasegroup_dbc

* fix how-to-obtain-free-records

* fix creating-accounts

* fix databases auth

* fix macos

* fix ac-dashboard-core-installation

* fix macos-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix linux-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix debian12-install-guide

* fix docs/vsc-requirements.md

* fix skill-discovery-template

* fix run-worldserver-and-authserver-in-visual-studio

* docs/creature-formations.md

* rename files

* fix mysqltypescpp

* fix monitoring-azerothcore-with-grafana

* fix files

* fix docs/how-to-use-game-events.md

* docs/creature-text.md

* fix dead link

* fix dead link

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix link

* fix link

* fix link

* ignoreDeadLinks

docs/creating-accounts.md, after:

# Creating Accounts

To be able to log in to your new server you need an account. 

It is recommended to use security level 3 for your own account.

Run the following commands in the Worldserver console.

## To create an account

```sh
account create <user> <pass>
```

**Example:**

```sh
account create admin admin
```

## To set your account security level

| Level | Security Level    |
|-------|-------------------|
| 0     | SEC_PLAYER        |
| 1     | SEC_MODERATOR     |
| 2     | SEC_GAMEMASTER    |
| 3     | SEC_ADMINISTRATOR |

```sh
account set gmlevel <user> <level> <realm>
```

::: tip Note
If the command was run while the account was logged in you need to relog for the security level to update properly.
:::

**Example:**

```sh
account set gmlevel admin 3 -1
```

::: tip Note
Use -1 to select all realms, or specify the specific realm id.
:::

## Changing password

```sh
account set password <user> <password> <password>
```

**Example:**

```sh
account set password admin 1234 1234
```

## Higher security level

The highest security level is SEC_CONSOLE (4) which your worldserver has by default.

It has access to account management and is not recommended for in-game accounts for anyone that does not know what they are doing.

To update an account to security level 4 you need to manually edit the fields in the database or run the query below.

```sql
UPDATE `account_access` AS `access`
INNER JOIN `account` AS `account` ON `access`.`id` = `account`.`id`
SET `gmlevel` = 4 WHERE `username` = '<user>';
```
