docs/final-server-steps.md, before:

# Final Server Steps

| Installation Guide                                                                                                                   |                                                                           |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| This article is a part of the Installation Guide. You can read it alone or click the previous link to easily move between the steps. |
| [<< Step 5: Networking](networking)                                                                                                  | [Step 7: Keeping the Server Up-to-Date >>](keeping-the-server-up-to-date) |

## Starting the server

- Run authserver and worldserver in your build folder.

For detailed information on how to configure a restarter and a debugger go to [how-to-restart-and-debug](how-to-restart-and-debug) page

{% include warning.html content="NEVER create an account directly into your database unless you are ABSOLUTELY SURE that you know what to do and how to do it!" %}

- Next, create your Login Account by typing directly into the **worldserver** window the GM Command **account create**. Syntax: (see examples below)

- If you wish to set the account as a GM then type into the worldserver window: **account set gmlevel $account #level #realmid** where **$account** is the account name to change, **#level** can be 0-4 and **#realmid** is the realm ID. Setting a **#level** of "3" is GM account level (higher numbers = more access), and the "-1" is the realm ID that stands for "all realms".

{% include tip.html content="Open your <b>acore_world</b> database and find the <b>command</b> table. This shows a full list of GM Commands, descriptions, and security levels.<br/>This will always be the most up-to-date list you can find, assuming you keep your DB and Core updated." %}

- Minimize your servers and run **WoW** (never run WoW using the Launcher unless you edited the realmlist.wtf's patchlist option above).

- Log in using the user/pass you just created.

- The AzerothCore realm should be selectable. Log in, create a character, and you're all done!

## Creating an Account

Read [creating accounts](creating-accounts).

## Setting up Remote Access
For development purposes, this step is not necessary. However, for increased security when you want other people to make accounts you should set up a registration form, so you don't have to paste their passwords. Check out [Remote Access](remote-access) on how to send commands into the server.

<br>

## Help

{% include help.html %}

| Installation Guide                                                                                                                   |                                                                           |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| This article is a part of the Installation Guide. You can read it alone or click the previous link to easily move between the steps. |
| [<< Step 5: Networking](networking)                                                                                                  | [Step 7: Keeping the Server Up-to-Date >>](keeping-the-server-up-to-date) |

Commit message:

chore. Switch to vitepress (#1)
* chore. Switch to vitepress

* Add PR check workflow

* Temporarily delete the Spanish directory

* changing

* fix windows-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* delete wiki-alerts-and-callouts

* fix macos-server-setup

* fix sniffing-and-parsing

* fix itempurchasegroup_dbc

* fix how-to-obtain-free-records

* fix creating-accounts

* fix databases auth

* fix macos

* fix ac-dashboard-core-installation

* fix macos-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix linux-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix debian12-install-guide

* fix docs/vsc-requirements.md

* fix skill-discovery-template

* fix run-worldserver-and-authserver-in-visual-studio

* docs/creature-formations.md

* rename files

* fix mysqltypescpp

* fix monitoring-azerothcore-with-grafana

* fix files

* fix docs/how-to-use-game-events.md

* docs/creature-text.md

* fix dead link

* fix dead link

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix link

* fix link

* fix link

* ignoreDeadLinks

docs/final-server-steps.md, after:

---
prev:
  text: 'Step 5: Networking'
  link: 'networking'

next:
  text: 'Step 7: Keeping the Server Up-to-Date'
  link: 'keeping-the-server-up-to-date'
---

# Final Server Steps

## Starting the server

- Run authserver and worldserver in your build folder.

For detailed information on how to configure a restarter and a debugger go to [how-to-restart-and-debug](how-to-restart-and-debug) page

::: warning
NEVER create an account directly into your database unless you are ABSOLUTELY SURE that you know what to do and how to do it!
:::

- Next, create your Login Account by typing directly into the **worldserver** window the GM Command **account create**. Syntax: (see examples below)
- If you wish to set the account as a GM then type into the worldserver window: **account set gmlevel $account #level #realmid** where **$account** is the account name to change, **#level** can be 0-4 and **#realmid** is the realm ID. Setting a **#level** of "3" is GM account level (higher numbers = more access), and the "-1" is the realm ID that stands for "all realms".

::: tip
Open your <b>acore_world</b> database and find the <b>command</b> table. This shows a full list of GM Commands, descriptions, and security levels.<br/>This will always be the most up-to-date list you can find, assuming you keep your DB and Core updated.
:::

- Minimize your servers and run **WoW** (never run WoW using the Launcher unless you edited the realmlist.wtf's patchlist option above).
- Log in using the user/pass you just created.
- The AzerothCore realm should be selectable. Log in, create a character, and you're all done!

## Creating an Account

Read [creating accounts](creating-accounts).

## Setting up Remote Access
For development purposes, this step is not necessary. However, for increased security when you want other people to make accounts you should set up a registration form, so you don't have to paste their passwords. Check out [Remote Access](remote-access) on how to send commands into the server.

<!--@include: ./help.md-->
