docs/logs.md, before:

# logs

[<-Back-to:Auth](database-auth)

**The \`logs\` table**

This table stores logs from `Appender` type database in config file.
Example db appender:

```ini
Appender.DB=3,5,0
```

**Table Structure**

| Field       | Type         | Attributes | Key | Null | Default | Extra | Comment |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---------- | --- | ---- | ------- | ----- | ------- |
| [time][1]   | INT          | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [realm][2]  | INT          | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [type][3]   | VARCHAR(250) | SIGNED     |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [level][4]  | TINYINT      | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   | 0       |       |         |
| [string][5] | TEXT         | SIGNED     |     | YES  |         |       |         |

[1]: #time
[2]: #realm
[3]: #type
[4]: #level
[5]: #string

**Description of the fields**

### time

A unixtime timestamp indicating when this string was logged.

### realm

The [RealmID](realmlist#id) of the realm this log string came from. 0 if realmd.

### type

The `Logger` name from config
Example logger:
```ini
Logger.server=4,Console Server
```

### level

Depends on LogLevel in authserver.conf

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| 1     | (Fatal)     |
| 2     | (Error)     |
| 3     | (Warning)   |
| 4     | (Info)      |
| 5     | (Debug)     |
| 6     | (Trace)     |

### string

The actual string that has been logged.

Commit message:

chore. Switch to vitepress (#1)
* chore. Switch to vitepress

* Add PR check workflow

* Temporarily delete the Spanish directory

* changing

* fix windows-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* delete wiki-alerts-and-callouts

* fix macos-server-setup

* fix sniffing-and-parsing

* fix itempurchasegroup_dbc

* fix how-to-obtain-free-records

* fix creating-accounts

* fix databases auth

* fix macos

* fix ac-dashboard-core-installation

* fix macos-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix linux-keeping-the-server-up-to-date

* fix debian12-install-guide

* fix docs/vsc-requirements.md

* fix skill-discovery-template

* fix run-worldserver-and-authserver-in-visual-studio

* docs/creature-formations.md

* rename files

* fix mysqltypescpp

* fix monitoring-azerothcore-with-grafana

* fix files

* fix docs/how-to-use-game-events.md

* docs/creature-text.md

* fix dead link

* fix dead link

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix image

* fix link

* fix link

* fix link

* ignoreDeadLinks

docs/logs.md, after:

---
prev:
  text: 'Database Auth'
  link: 'database-auth'
---

# logs

**The \`logs\` table**

This table stores logs from `Appender` type database in config file. Example db appender:

```ini
Appender.DB=3,5,0
```

**Table Structure**

| Field       | Type         | Attributes | Key | Null | Default | Extra | Comment |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---------- | --- | ---- | ------- | ----- | ------- |
| [time][1]   | INT          | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [realm][2]  | INT          | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [type][3]   | VARCHAR(250) | SIGNED     |     | NO   |         |       |         |
| [level][4]  | TINYINT      | UNSIGNED   |     | NO   | 0       |       |         |
| [string][5] | TEXT         | SIGNED     |     | YES  |         |       |         |

[1]: #time
[2]: #realm
[3]: #type
[4]: #level
[5]: #string

**Description of the fields**

### time

A unixtime timestamp indicating when this string was logged.

### realm

The [RealmID](realmlist#id) of the realm this log string came from. 0 if realmd.

### type

The `Logger` name from config. Example logger:

```ini
Logger.server=4,Console Server
```

### level

Depends on LogLevel in authserver.conf

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| 1     | (Fatal)     |
| 2     | (Error)     |
| 3     | (Warning)   |
| 4     | (Info)      |
| 5     | (Debug)     |
| 6     | (Trace)     |

### string

The actual string that has been logged.
