docs/quest-greeting.md, before:

# quest\_greeting

[<-Back-to:World](database-world)

**The \`quest_greeting\` table**

This table add greeting behavior to an NPC or an Gameobject.

**Table Structure**

| Field                | Type      | Attributes | Key | NULL | Default | Comment |
| -------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- | ---- | ------- | ------- |
| [ID][1]              | MEDIUMINT | UNSIGNED   | Yes | NO   | 0       |         |
| [Type][2]            | TINYINT   | UNSIGNED   | Yes | NO   | 0       |         |
| [GreetEmoteType][3]  | SMALLINT  | UNSIGNED   | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |
| [GreetEmoteDelay][4] | INT       | UNSIGNED   | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |
| [Greeting][5]        | TEXT      |            | NO  | YES  | NULL    |         |
| [VerifiedBuild][6]   | SMALLINT  | SIGNED     | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |

[1]: #id
[2]: #type
[3]: #greetemotetype
[4]: #greetemotedelay
[5]: #greeting
[6]: #verifiedbuild

**Description of the fields:**

### ID

Unique ID ([creature_template.entry](creature-template#entry) or [gameobject\_template.entry](gameobject-template#entry))

### Type

-   0=Creature (The ID is point to creature\_template.entry)
-   1=GameObject (The ID is point to gameobject\_template.entry)

### GreetEmoteType

Quest NPC [Emote](emotes)

### GreetEmoteDelay

Emote delay in milliseconds

### Greeting

Text to show

### VerifiedBuild

This field was used to determine whether a template has been verified from WDB files.

- If value is 0 then it has not been parsed yet.
- If value is above 0 then it has been parsed with WDB files from that specific client build.
- If value is -1 then it is just a place holder until proper data are found on WDBs.
- If value is -Client Build then it was parsed with WDB files from that specific client build and manually edited later for some special necessity.

Commit message:

chore. Include VerifiedBuild information from the file

docs/quest-greeting.md, after:

---
prev:
  text: 'Database World'
  link: 'database-world'
next: false
aside: false
---

# quest\_greeting

**The \`quest_greeting\` table**

This table add greeting behavior to an NPC or an Gameobject.

## Table Structure

| Field                | Type      | Attributes | Key | NULL | Default | Comment |
| -------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --- | ---- | ------- | ------- |
| [ID][1]              | MEDIUMINT | UNSIGNED   | Yes | NO   | 0       |         |
| [Type][2]            | TINYINT   | UNSIGNED   | Yes | NO   | 0       |         |
| [GreetEmoteType][3]  | SMALLINT  | UNSIGNED   | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |
| [GreetEmoteDelay][4] | INT       | UNSIGNED   | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |
| [Greeting][5]        | TEXT      |            | NO  | YES  | NULL    |         |
| [VerifiedBuild][6]   | SMALLINT  | SIGNED     | NO  | NO   | 0       |         |

[1]: #id
[2]: #type
[3]: #greetemotetype
[4]: #greetemotedelay
[5]: #greeting
[6]: #verifiedbuild

## Description of the fields

### ID

Unique ID ([creature_template.entry](creature-template#entry) or [gameobject\_template.entry](gameobject-template#entry))

### Type

- 0 = Creature (The ID is point to creature\_template.entry)
- 1 = GameObject (The ID is point to gameobject\_template.entry)

### GreetEmoteType

Quest NPC [Emote](emotes)

### GreetEmoteDelay

Emote delay in milliseconds

### Greeting

Text to show

<!--@include: ./verified-build.md-->
